Add scala3-migrate tool (#154)
scalacenter/scala-3-migration-guide: docs/scala3-migrate-tool.md

```

`better-monadic-for` is a Scala 2 compiler plugin. 
As explained in this [section](tutorials/sbt-migration.md#12---compiler-plugins), Scala 2 compiler plugins are not
supported in Scala 3.
In this case, we need to remove `better-monadic-for` and fix the code to make compile without the compiler plugin. 

For `kind-projector`, which is also a Scala 2 compiler plugin, there is an equivalent scalacOption that
can be added in your `scalacOptions`.

### Libraries that can be updated
```shell
[info] org.typelevel:cats-core:2.2.0            -> "org.typelevel" %% "cats-core" % "2.4.2"
[info] ch.epfl.scala:scalafix-rules:0.9.26:test -> "ch.epfl.scala" % "scalafix-rules_2.13" % "0.9.26" % "test"
```

- For `cats-core` there is an available version that has been published for `3.0.0-RC1` 
  which is the proposed version `2.4.2`. We can then update the build with this new version.
  
- For `scalafix-rules`, there is no available version for Scala 3, but the library doesn't contain macro
  and therefore the 2.13 version can be used as it is in scala 3. The syntax needs still to be updated from

>  `ch.epfl.scala" `**%%**` "scalafix-rules" % "0.9.26" % "test"` to `ch.epfl.scala" `**% **`"scalafix-rules_2.13" % "0.9.26" % "test"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `ch.epfl.scala" `**%%**` "scalafix-rules" % "0.9.26" % "test"` to `ch.epfl.scala" `**%**`"scalafix-rules_2.13" % "0.9.26" % "test"`
```

  where we explicitly specify the Scala version.
  

> There are other syntaxes to express that we want to use the `2.13` version for `3.0.x` code, but keep using
> the `2.13` for `2.1`3 and `2.12` for `2.12`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are other syntaxes to express that we want to use the `_2.13` artifact for `3.0.x` code, but keep using
`_2.13` for `2.13.x` and  `_2.12` for `2.12.x`.
```

if the sbt's version is higher than 1.5:
```scala

> "ch.epfl.scala"%% "scalafix-rules" % "0.9.26" % Test cross CrossVersion.for3Use2_13)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"ch.epfl.scala"%% "scalafix-rules" % "0.9.26" % Test cross CrossVersion.for3Use2_13
```

```
if the sbt's version is 1.3, or 1.4:
```scala
("ch.epfl.scala"%% "scalafix-rules" % "0.9.26" % Test).withDottyCompat(scalaVersion.value)
```

### Valid libraries
```
[info] ch.epfl.scala:scalafix-interfaces:0.9.26 -> Valid
```
Valid libraries are libraries than can be kept as they are. Those libraries are either already in the correct 
version, because they are published in scala 3.0.0-RC1, or they are Java libraries. 

### The new build after migrate-libs

> We use sbt `1.5.0-M2` and we removed the macro library `"com.softwaremill.scalamacrodebug:macros"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use sbt `1.5.0-RC1` and we removed the macro library `"com.softwaremill.scalamacrodebug:macros"`.
```

[info] -Xplugin:/Users/meriamlachkar/Library/Caches/Coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/scalameta/semanticdb-scalac_2.13.3/4.4.0/semanticdb-scalac_2.13.3-4.4.0.jar -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:synthetics:on                                                                                                                                           -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:targetroot:/Users/meriamlachkar/perso/plugin-test/target/scala-2.13/meta                                                                                -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:sourceroot:/Users/meriamlachkar/perso/plugin-test                                                                                                       -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:failures:warning                                                                                                                                        -> Valid
[success]
```
### Non-existing scalacOptions in Scala 3
```scala
[info] -Wunused      -> X
[info] -Yrangepos    -> X
```
- `-Yrangepos` : As explained in the output of this command, some scalacOptions are not set directly by the build, but by

> some sbt plugins. For example `scala3-migrate` tool enables semanticdb plugin in Scala 2, which adds `-Yrangepos`. 
> Here semanticb will adapt its own scalacOptions in Scala 3 and therefore no need to take any action.

Reviewer: semanticdb is not a plugin anymore, it's a setting in sbt.

```suggestion
some sbt plugins. For example `scala3-migrate` tool enables semanticdb in Scala 2, which adds `-Yrangepos`. 
Here sbt will adapt its the semanticdb options in Scala 3 and therefore there is no need to take any action.
```

[info] -Xplugin:/Users/meriamlachkar/Library/Caches/Coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/olegpy/better-monadic-for_2.13/0.3.1/better-monadic-for_2.13-0.3.1.jar      -> Valid
[info] -Xplugin:/Users/meriamlachkar/Library/Caches/Coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/scalameta/semanticdb-scalac_2.13.3/4.4.0/semanticdb-scalac_2.13.3-4.4.0.jar -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:synthetics:on                                                                                                                                           -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:targetroot:/Users/meriamlachkar/perso/plugin-test/target/scala-2.13/meta                                                                                -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:sourceroot:/Users/meriamlachkar/perso/plugin-test                                                                                                       -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:failures:warning 
```
With the previous command `migrate-libs`, we have already adapted `kind-projector` and removed `better-monadic-for` 

> for Scala 3. If the previous step is done correctly, you should no need to change anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Scala 3. If the previous step is done correctly, you should not need to change anything.
```

#### Details
- If you have set some of the options above in your build, for example `-P:semanticdb:synthetics:on`, 
  you need to check if this option still exist for the scala 3 version of this plugin. For example, `synthetics:on`
  has not been yet implemented and need to be removed. 

> - `better-monadic-for` plugin is in the previous list because we haven't yet `reload` the build.

Reviewer: But if I reload i'll still have `better-monadic-for` in Scala 2.13 so it will still be shown, right?

- fix.scala213.ConstructorProcedureSyntax
- fix.scala213.ExplicitNullaryEtaExpansion
- fix.scala213.ParensAroundLambda
- fix.scala213.ExplicitNonNullaryApply
- fix.scala213.Any2StringAdd

For more information on the incompatibilities fixed, please read the [incomatibility section](incompatibilities/table.md).

Let's run the command `migrate-syntax`. If there are changes after this command, it's better if you create a commit for those. 
```shell
> migrate-syntax main
[success] Total time: 0 s, completed 12 Mar 2021, 20:55:51
[info] We are going to fix some syntax incompatibilities
[INFO ] migrate.Scala3Migrate.previewSyntaxMigration:80 - Successfully run fixSyntaxForScala3  in 8839 milliseconds
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Incompat13.scala)
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Cats6.scala)
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Cats5.scala)
[info]
[info] The syntax incompatibilities have been fixed on the project main
[info] You can now commit the change!
[info] You can also execute the next command to try to migrate to 3.0.0-RC1
[info]
[info] migrate main
[success]
```

> ## Migrate the code: last command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Migrate the code: last command
```

                     else Seq("-explaintypes", "-Wunused"))
 libraryDependencies ++= Seq(
-  "org.typelevel"                    %% "cats-core"           % "2.2.0",
+  "org.typelevel"                    %% "cats-core"           % "2.4.2",
  "ch.epfl.scala"                     % "scalafix-interfaces" % "0.9.26",
-  "com.softwaremill.scalamacrodebug" %% "macros"              % "0.4.1" % Test,
-  "ch.epfl.scala"                    %% "scalafix-rules"      % "0.9.26" % Test,
+  ("ch.epfl.scala"                    %% "scalafix-rules"      % "0.9.26" % Test).cross(CrossVersion.for3Use2_13),
-  compilerPlugin("org.typelevel" %% "kind-projector" % "0.11.0" cross CrossVersion.full),
-  compilerPlugin("com.olegpy" %% "better-monadic-for" % "0.3.1")     
+  ) ++ (CrossVersion.partialVersion(scalaVersion.value) match {
+          case Some((2, 13)) =>
+            Seq(compilerPlugin(("org.typelevel" %% "kind-projector" % V.kindProjector).cross(CrossVersion.full)))
+          case Some((3, _)) => Seq()
+          case _            => Seq()
  })              
```

## Migrate scalacOptions

> **Usage:** `migrate-scalacOption projectId` where projectId is the name of the module chosen to be migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Usage:** `migrate-scalacOptions projectId` where projectId is the name of the module chosen to be migrated.
```

> First run the command `migrate-scalacOption`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First run the command `migrate-scalacOptions`.
```

This command rely directly on this [section](tutorials/scalacoptions-migration.md).
```scala

> [info]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> migrate-scalacOptions main
[info]
```

[info] -P:semanticdb:sourceroot:/Users/meriamlachkar/perso/plugin-test                                                                                                       -> Valid
[info] -P:semanticdb:failures:warning 
```
With the previous command `migrate-libs`, we have already adapted `kind-projector` and removed `better-monadic-for` 
for Scala 3. If the previous step is done correctly, you should not need to change anything.

#### Details
- If you have set one of the options above in your build, for example `-P:semanticdb:synthetics:on`, 
  you need to check if this option still exist for the scala 3 version of this plugin. In this case, `-P:semanticdb:synthetics:on`
  has not been yet implemented in Scala 3 and need to be removed. 
- `better-monadic-for` plugin is in the previous list because we haven't yet `reload` the build.
- `migrate-scalacOptions`: in the previous step, `kind-projector` plugin has been replaced by a scalacOption when it's Scala 3, but 
  `migrate-scalacOptions` retrieves scalacOptions as seen in Scala 2.13. This is why we won't see this scalacOption in

>   the list above when we execute `migrate-scalacOption`. The same way, we will still see the plugin being added through `-Xplugin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the list above when we execute `migrate-scalacOptions`. The same way, we will still see the plugin being added through `-Xplugin`.
```

for Scala 3. If the previous step is done correctly, you should not need to change anything.

#### Details
- If you have set one of the options above in your build, for example `-P:semanticdb:synthetics:on`, 
  you need to check if this option still exist for the scala 3 version of this plugin. In this case, `-P:semanticdb:synthetics:on`
  has not been yet implemented in Scala 3 and need to be removed. 
- `better-monadic-for` plugin is in the previous list because we haven't yet `reload` the build.
- `migrate-scalacOptions`: in the previous step, `kind-projector` plugin has been replaced by a scalacOption when it's Scala 3, but 
  `migrate-scalacOptions` retrieves scalacOptions as seen in Scala 2.13. This is why we won't see this scalacOption in
  the list above when we execute `migrate-scalacOptions`. The same way, we will still see the plugin being added through `-Xplugin`.
- `-Xplugin:semanticdb` is added here through an sbt setting `semanticdbEnabled := true` that is set by
  scala3-migrate (this tool). If semanticdb is added through `compilerPlugin` or `addCompilerPlugin`, it will

>   be listed as a libraryDependencies when we execute `migrate-libs`. The support of SemanticDB is now shipped 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  be listed as a `libraryDependencies` when we execute `migrate-libs`. The support of SemanticDB is now shipped 
```

  into the Scala 3 compiler, and will be configured with the same setting: `semanticdbEnabled := true`. 

>   Scala3-migrate doesn't enable semanticdb in scala 3 unless it's configured in the build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Scala3-migrate doesn't enable SemanticDB in scala 3 unless it's configured in the build.
```

  

### The new build after migrate-scalacOptions
```diff
- scalacOptions ++= (if (scalaVersion.value.startsWith("3")) Seq("-explaintypes", "-Wunused", "-Ykind-projector")
                     else Seq("-explaintypes", "-Wunused"))
+ scalacOptions ++= (if (scalaVersion.value.startsWith("3")) Seq("-explain-types", "-Wunused", "-Ykind-projector")
                     else Seq("-explaintypes", "-Wunused"))                     
```

# Migrate the syntax
**Usage:** `migrate-syntax projectId` where projectId is the name of the module chosen to be migrated.

The command `migrate-syntax` fixes some incompatibilities by applying the following Scalafix rules:

- ProcedureSyntax
- fix.scala213.ConstructorProcedureSyntax
- fix.scala213.ExplicitNullaryEtaExpansion
- fix.scala213.ParensAroundLambda
- fix.scala213.ExplicitNonNullaryApply

> - fix.scala213.Any2StringAdd

Reviewer 2: Can you put links to the docs of these rules?

Author: I link the page that explain each one and link it to github.

[INFO ] migrate.Scala3Migrate.previewSyntaxMigration:80 - Successfully run fixSyntaxForScala3  in 8839 milliseconds
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Incompat13.scala)
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Cats6.scala)
[INFO ] migrate.utils.ScalafixService.fixInPlace:40 - Syntax fixed for Cats5.scala)
[info]
[info] The syntax incompatibilities have been fixed on the project main
[info] You can now commit the change!
[info] You can also execute the next command to try to migrate to 3.0.0-RC1
[info]
[info] migrate main
[success]
```

# Migrate the code: last command
> First `reload` the build to take into account the modifications in scalacOptions and libraryDependencies.
>

**Usage:** `migrate projectId` where projectId is the name of the module chosen to be migrated

Scala 3 uses a new type inference algorithm, therefore the Scala 3.0 compiler can infer a different
type than the one inferred by the Scala 2.13 (for more information, read [the type inference section](incompatibilities/table.md#type-inference)). 
This command goal is to find the necessary types to add in order to make you code compiles.

> If the libraries has not been ported correctly, running `migrage projectId` would fail with the failing libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the libraries has not been ported correctly, running `migrage projectId` will fail reporting the problematic libraries.
```
